# Smart-Medicine-Dispenser
Smart Medicine Dispenser using ESP32S with touch, heartbeat and temperature sensor. 
The life of a person has become so hectic that it is not possible for him to vacate even a single minute to look after himself, thus negligence towards taking medicines has become conventional. Studies show that many people irrespective of age become forgetful when it comes to consuming medicines. This, seen mostly in the elderly, leads to many life risks. This is where medicine dispensers come into play. There are different types of dispensers all of which are just implemented using solid medicines. Most of them are just simple devices with reminders but lack other aspects of health monitoring systems. The available dispensers are extremely costly and do not allow multi-user functionality.
This project proposes a dispenser that can dispense solid medicines and has an application integrated with it that helps to set alarms and provide care and take live information. To build an economically viable medicine dispenser and to make it more efficient. The system should allow efficient communication between the user and the caretaker. The product is designed to make sure that the quantity and timing of the pills to be dispensed can be controlled and monitored using an app, which makes things easier for everyone, it is also embedded with a health monitoring system.
The system that is proposed is mainly divided into two parts consisting of hardware and software. The hardware would include ESP32S for managing the sensors and connectivity with Postman as it has wifi and Bluetooth compatibility.
